---
title: Threading the random number state
---

In the previous exercise we wrote something that handled the threading of state
through a list of generators.  A simpler idea is to have a function that does
one step of two generators and the necessary state threading.  Now write a
function called genTwo that does this.  Its first argument will be a
generator.  Its second argument will be a function that takes the result of
the first generator and returns a second generator.  The type signature looks
like this:

    genTwo :: Gen a -> (a -> Gen b) -> Gen b

Implement this function.

Now look at the implementation of your repRandom function.  It probably has one
clause handling the empty list case.  That case probably looks something like this:

    repRandom [] s = ([], s)

repRandom was expecting a list of generators and it's supposed to return a
generator. In the empty list case it has no incoming generators to work with but
it still has to return one. Esentially what's happening here is it has to
construct a Gen out of thin air. It turns out that this is a really common
pattern. So let's make a function for it. We'll call this function mkGen. It has
to return a `Gen a`. But it has to get the a from somewhere, so that will have
to be the argument.

Implement mkGen. Try to figure out the type signature yourself, but if you need
help here it is hex-encoded: 6D6B47656E203A3A2061202D3E2047656E2061.

You can decode it with [this online hex decoder](http://www.convertstring.com/EncodeDecode/HexDecode).

[Previous Page](ex1-5.html) - [Next Page](set2.html)
