---
title: Chains of Failing Computations
---

In MCPrelude we have defined the following type synonym for you.

    type GreekData = [(String, [Integer])]

We also provide two data structures `greekDataA, greekDataB :: GreekData` that
have some sample data.

Write a function to query the above data structure.  Your function should have
the following type signature:

    queryGreek :: GreekData -> String -> Maybe Double

Your implementation of this function should use the functions you wrote in the
previous exercise to do the following. First query the GreekData that is passed
in, look up the string passed in the second argument, and retrieve the
corresponding list of Integers. Call this list xs. Next calculate the maximum of
the tail of xs. (Don't use any pattern matching here. Use case expressions and
the maximumMay and tailMay functions you wrote in the last exercise.) Take the
maximum and divide it by the head of the list (using your headMay and divMay
functions). If any of these operations along the way return Nothing, then your
function should return Nothing. But if everything succeeds, then return the
final quotient. One hint...you'll need to use the fromIntegral function to
convert your two integers to Doubles for the final call to divMay.

You will probably find this function pretty annoying to implement. Stick with us
though...there is a point. The more you feel the pain now, the more the
solutions will stick in your head later.

Your function should generate the following results:

    queryGreek greekDataA "alpha" == Just 2.0
    queryGreek greekDataA "beta" == Nothing
    queryGreek greekDataA "gamma" == Just 3.3333333333333335
    queryGreek greekDataA "delta" == Nothing
    queryGreek greekDataA "zeta" == Nothing

    queryGreek greekDataB "rho" == Nothing
    queryGreek greekDataB "phi" == Just 0.24528301886792453
    queryGreek greekDataB "chi" == Just 9.095238095238095
    queryGreek greekDataB "psi" == Nothing
    queryGreek greekDataB "omega" == Just 24.0

If your function threw any kind of exception on any of those inputs, then your
implementation is wrong.  Make sure your function always returns a Nothing or
a Just in every case.

[Previous Page](ex2-2.html) - [Next Page](ex2-4.html)
