---
title: Combinations of more things
---

You probably noticed that `allCombs3` is getting painful to write.  Worse still,
it does not help us generate combinations of four or more things.  We need to
take a different approach if we want this to scale easily.  This is a
difficult step, so we are not going to make you figure it out yourself.  All
the same, spend some time thinking about how you might do it.  Here is a hint
though.  You probably noticed that `allCombs` has `([a] -> [b])` in its type
signature and `allCombs3` has `([a] -> [b] -> [c])` in its type signature.  When
you are playing with this, do not try to generalize that pattern to `[[a]]`.
That is not an adequate generalization because it only allows `a` and has no `b`
or `c` anywhere.  Spend some time thinking about this before you continue.  But
don't be discouraged if you can't figure it out.  This one is hard.

Back?  If you figured it out, congratulations.  If not, here is the hex
encoded type signature for a function called `combStep` that is the
generalization we need.

    636F6D6253746570203A3A205B61202D3E20625D202D3E205B615D202D3E205B625D

Now write that function. Then use the `combStep` function to implement `allCombs`
and `allCombs3` and check that the new implementations have the same behavior as
before. Once you do this it should be pretty obvious how you would use `combStep`
to implement `allCombs4` and beyond. Also notice how `combStep` compares to
`allCombs`.

[Previous Page](ex3-4.html) - [Next Page](set4.html)
