# More Generators

Now write a few more functions to generate different subsets of random
numbers.  But first, we need to generalize a bit.  If we look at the type
signatures for rand and randLetter, what are the commonalities?

    rand :: Seed -> (Integer, Seed)
    randLetter :: Seed -> (Char, Seed)

Create a type alias called Gen that can be used to capture the common pattern.
The key point here is that they use two different types, so you will have to
introduce a type parameter.  Create a type alias that allows you to redefine
these two functions with the following type signatures.

    rand :: Gen Integer
    rand :: Gen Char

This is a relatively obvious type alias and it is pretty easy to write, but it
enables a big mental leap.  Now that we have this type alias we've jumped up a
level of abstraction and higher level patterns will become more apparent.
First go back and rewrite all your existing type signatures using this Gen
type alias.  Now write three new functions:

    randEven :: Gen Integer
    randOdd :: Gen Integer
    randTen :: Gen Integer

Where randEven and randOdd generate only even and odd numbers respectively and
randTen generates only multiples of 10.  Write randEven in terms of rand,
write randOdd in terms of randEven, and write randTen however you want.
There's a general pattern lurking here.  If you implement all these functions
the naive way like you did fiveRands, you'll be repeating the same pattern
over and over.  Figure out how to exploit the common pattern.  All of them
should use a more generalized function that you must come up with.  There are
a number of different ways you could abstract this.  We realize that you may
not pick the right abstraction.  Play around with as many different
possibilities as you can think of.

SPEND SOME TIME WITH THIS BEFORE READING THE HINT!

Play with a number of abstractions and try to find the most flexible.  After
you've spent some time with it, look at the hint [here](3hint.md).

Pass all three of these functions a seed of 1.  They'll give you three numbers
back, the product of which is 189908109902700.

